Let's see documenting RESTful APIs using Swagger and action.
At this point, you can clone the code using the link in the course notes section.
This code is for our airport locations RESTful API.
We've used this in previous lessons.
Let's take a look at the steps needed to configure
Swagger and then review the Swagger UI.
I've open the project and I've navigated to the Maven Palm file.
Let's scroll down and take a look at the dependencies needed for Swagger.
Here on lines 41 through 45,
you will need the springfox Swagger UI.
Here on lines 47 through 52,
you will need the springfox swagger2 dependency.
Now the configuration of Swagger mainly centers around the docket bean and
that can be found in this SwaggerConfig.java file underneath the config folder.
So I've created the SwaggerConfig and notice here on line
18 I'm using the @EnablesSwagger2 annotation.
This annotation essentially enables Swagger.
Then the configuration here on line 27 through 33 hits
really all we need to integrate Swagger into any existing spring boot project.
So let's take a look at this method.
So this is the docket bean that we're creating.
Notice here we're saying the documentation type is
Swagger and then there's a select method on the docket beam.
This returns an instance of the API selector builder which
essentially controls the endpoints exposed by Swagger.
Then here on lines 29 and 30,
for the request handlers and the past selectors,
I'm using any here and essentially that makes
documentation available for the entire locations API.
So I'm not limiting the documentation at all.
Swagger also provide some default values in its response that you can customize here
in this API info and is essentially contact information about the API.
So here I include a title, description,
version, contact information, etc.
This docket bean is all we need in order to
configure Swagger and have access to the Swagger UI.
So I've already deployed this project.
So let's take a look at the Swagger UI.
Let's remove that and just go to the main.
So this is the main page.
This is the URL to get to the Swagger UI.
The URL is localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html.
So on this screen,
Swagger lists all of the end points available in
the service and you can test all of the endpoints created for you.
So location controller that's our controller that we're familiar with and
notice it exposes two operations, getAllLocations and getLocation.
So let's take a look at this.
Notice in this documentation it lists out the parameters needed for this method,
in this case no parameters and it lists out the responses.
So far the response code 200,
it shows an example model returned.
So here in address and ID and a name.
So this is very helpful for people that need to consume or use your API.
They can actually try it out by clicking Tryout and then clicking Execute.
Notice down here it shows the results of calling the getAllLocations API.
Notice it lists are locations, very useful.
Let's take a look at the second operation that's
getting a specific location by passing in the ID.
Let's expand this.
Notice here it tells the parameters,
in this case there's one parameter that's an integer and it's the ID.
Here again it shows the response from the API,
an example model here,
the address, the ID and name.
Again you can test it out by clicking on try it out,
you enter the parameter.
So let's retrieve information for location 1.
You click Execute and notice we have the response body so it
returns back the details for location with an ID of one.
So this is a quick look at Swagger UI,
is very useful documentation tool to help others learn how to use your API.